kind of what we do, but with a lot of history thrown in.
So, I'm actually going to... Okay, this is Susan?
Yes.
R-A-B-E, right?
Yep.
And your position, just for the plate here, is the title, I guess?
Program Officer for Repository Collections.
All right.
And the reason why I'm starting back here... And back here being where?
In our incoming receipts area.
Okay.
is to show you a little shelving from our original building at Cottage Grove.
And how long have you been in this new facility?
Let me retract here.
Eight years in one section and 18 in the other.
There's actually two different buildings.
So this isn't a very recent move then?
He was saying he moved two million books up here, like last year?
No, it was about 94, I guess, that the move was.
So the building's construction started in 92.
I see, I see.
You mean as an institution?
Institution, yeah.
Okay, I'm sorry.
I was thinking in terms of the building.
In our Cottage Grove building, which was our original building facility, we had
storage shelf that were, at the time, in the 1950s, one of the first installations of compact storage.
And the arrangement was a standing fixed shelf in the center with bays that swung open on either side.
And the uniqueness compared to current facilities is that
into the shelving, we could adjust the shelves on either side of each bay.
So in some sections where we had small, short books, we actually had from the center a total of six sets of shelving.
And then when you get larger books, you end up with only three.
So we store by size here.
We store by size, which you will see greatly.
And when the Center was founded, the original impetus was the ten or so Midwestern library.
The Big Ten type libraries?
The Big Ten, and actually I'll start wanting to go one of the things we knew from Cottage Grove.
Cottage Grove is where?
Chicago.
It's about six blocks west and about four blocks north of where we are right now.
But our founding members are this group.
University of Chicago, Illinois Institute of Technology, University of Illinois, Indiana University, University of Iowa, University of Kansas, Michigan State, University of Minnesota, Northwestern, and Purdue.
So it's not necessarily the Big Ten.
It's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
Well, it is ten, but it's not the Big Ten, because Kansas is not a Big Ten school.
And neither is the Illinois Institute of Technology, and the University of Chicago has its affiliation with all the Big Tens for their...
Programs.
Programs and such.
Certainly not by football.
Not anymore.
Not ever.
No, they did play a lot of them back in the days of Amos Alonzo's dad.
Oh, they did.
But not anymore.
But they were running into a space conference after the war.
I'm going to go upstairs where you're leaving.
So this actually predates a lot of the off-site storage things.
In fact, do you think this is the first one?
I'm not necessarily sure that the first... I know Boston, I know Harvard, the BPO, used one in Boston.
There was a consortial arrangement at least in the back of the 40s.
Yeah, and that's roughly the same time because the center officially was founded in 1949.
And then they, you know, started their, you know, what are we going to do?
What's the purpose of this organization?
Let's build a building.
And so, really, the building and the production didn't start happening until the early 50s.
Don't quote me on a date.
I actually have something to give you.
Oh, that's good.
I'm really bad at dates.
No, but I like things, and I need paper.
And the, um, more license.
Now, is this storage, or is this kind of transit here?
This is actual story.
Oh, and now we're looking at newspapers, the Rocky Mountain News, for instance.
This is newspapers.
And we're on the first floor now?
We're on the fourth floor of Kenwood One, which was the seventh floor of our Cottage Grove facility.
And the only reason that it's significant is the call numbers that we use throughout the building are really accession numbers.
In two distinct cases, they were locators for the floor, row, and bay in the Cottage Grove building.
So these have seven numbers.
So you're actually saving the newspapers?
Yes, as long as we don't have microfilm.
Now, to show an example.
I don't expect you can have microfilm on the Figaro and Irish Gentlewoman, right?
Uh, no, but it probably exists.
You think?
Uh, for that one, yes.
So, like, uh, this particular paper, Enson Bakita.
Enson D-A-K-I with a little thing.
K-A.
Right.
It's wrapped, probably because it's unbound, and... Brittle, do not circulate, it says.
Circulate, which means it's...
Humbling.
If someone asked for this, if we couldn't supply them a specific article that we could photocopy, we would either purchase microfilm if it existed, and I guess it does not.
It's fairly, it's not that old, 1953.
No, but given the pile of it then, I would guess this is a Turkish newspaper.
Published where, do you think?
Most of our Turkish newspapers are from the Istanbul... So it is Turkish-Turkish.
Turkish-Turkish, yeah.
and um so who would have turned who would have sent this over to you i'm not sure you sent us the turkish newspapers to be honest but someone had a collection that's roughly various localities and turkeys in the 50s and if we couldn't find film which is highly likely for this we will microfilm it ourselves you will for the at some point or if someone requests it i mean long term we have to do it
But if an immediate request comes, we will attempt to fill the request.
Are all the newspapers in here?
Or is there more?
Except for the ones on Microfilm.
That's what I mean.
The artifacts... Are here.
Are here.
Do you have a feel, do you have an idea of what's here?
It's a combination of both general circulation newspapers, such as the Rocky Mountain News from the United States, foreign newspapers, and then U.S.
ethnic press.
I mean, in terms of numbers, in terms of... Probably 30,000 volumes.
Hmm.
But titles, I really... So you really... Do you think these institutions... How many institutions are there in the consortium now?
You had 10 to start with?
We had 10 to start.
Approximately.
There's approximately 100 voting members.
100.
Another 20 or so associate members.
And then...
Two of those voting members are actually large consortia groups themselves, one being OhioLink, which means the higher education institutions in Ohio, and the other is Orbis, which is the Pacific Northwest.
You have the Greek National Herald there.
Yeah, which is actually Ethico Curis.
Is what?
It's really this title in Greek.
So that's a U.S.
ethnic press.
So that's A-K-A, Ethnikus, E-T-H-N-I.
Don't expect to see this in print, but I... K-E-R-U-X, right?
Right.
Okay.
And a lot of the newsprint, though I'm not sure about the Turkish, actually came from the University of Illinois as one of the founding members.
When they were trying to find space in their library, this is one of the things that...
But you don't take everything.
No.
You are not an off-site storage facility for these hundred-odd... No.
And we have to make that clear.
It's not like Harvard can decide to send this out to HD and it goes there.
There's no mediation in deciding, well, this is a title... There is a mediation, but it's very esoteric.
Originally... Your mediation is very esoteric.
Yeah.
Originally, we were really an off-site storage facility in the founding years.
We were taking materials that people were no longer using.
The only difference from many of the off-site storage facilities is we would not take multiple copies in the sense of if we got it from one member, we did not take someone else's copy.
What if their copy was a better copy?
It was basically a judgment call.
I mean, you know...
Don't be shy.
I know what they're doing out in Colorado.
They get five places, and it's basically they're creating a new library, and they're only going to take one copy, and they're going to get rid of all the others.
I said, but are you going to try and keep the best one?
He said, well, if they all come in at the same time.
But as a practical matter, though, I can tell you, once the copy's in there, that's the copy that's there.
And, you know, when people offer things now, one of the things we do is go look and see what we have so that if
You know, we find something that through use the binding has broken or it's been lost or it's gotten really ratty.
We will take the new copy.
Is condition a constant consideration?
Is it something that you're... It's kept in the back of our mind that it's probably not kept... Top priority.
Top priority, unfortunately.
But anyway, they had this idea of, you know, let's have an off-site storage facility.
And that's largely what the initial collection focus was.
Well, then, you know, they got things cleared out.
And they went, well, so what should we do now?
We have this seven-story building in Chicago.
How should we fill it up?
So then they started changing the focus to be doing active subscriptions and collection growing.
So they started adding new things like newspaper subscriptions on microfilm and major microform sets.
and rarely held cereals, rarely held in the United States.
And that's what we focus on more now.
And in doing the deposit storage facility aspect now, we still focus on the rarely held or rarely used.
Okay.
And not so much on the commonly held.
So this is all, these are all, there's your catalog number.
Right.
And so if somebody wants one of these, you have to open it up and take it out and reseal it again.
But from what I could see, most of these pretty much stay sealed.
Pretty much.
It isn't likely to be an immediate run-on.
That's why they get here in the first place.
There are some titles that are constantly circulating, for example... At which point you think, why are they here?
Maybe if they're constantly circulating... Well, constantly circulating for us and constantly circulating...
in another library are vastly different concepts.
So what is constantly circulating?
The New York Sun.
So in terms of what would you consider a constantly circulating figure?
Figure's hard to say, because what we're seeing is a title is constantly.
Well, that's what I mean, but if it's used once, it's probably constantly circulating.
I'm teasing, but... No, but it's more along the line of the newspaper,
There's probably anywhere from, say, 10 to 30 requests for that particular newspaper title.
That's pretty good.
So it might be varying volumes, and it might be for the same person who's doing a research project that gets them into that newspaper, and they just are asking for each.
So you even send these to the institution?
Yes.
Do they pay for each?
Is there a fee?
Not for members.
That's part of their membership, is that once they request something like this, the only additional cost that they incur is sending it back.
I see.
We cover the cost of shipping it to them.
What's the turnaround, generally?
Generally, 24 to 48 hours, depending upon what it is.
Do you FedEx things?
You must.
It varies.
Our standard shipping is UPS.
The West Coast gets a standard shipping of UPS Second Day Air.
And you pick up the expense on that?
And we pick up the expense on that.
And we have a couple other groups who have done specialized courier arrangements.
And they'll pay for that?
And we pay for that within the group contract.
We're just one more library in that group contract.
Okay.
So it does work out nicely.
I'm going to take a stem this way, actually.
I'm eager to see books and stuff.
Yeah.
I'm flying out today, so I'm hoping we should be able to do this in about an hour, do you think?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I will just point out this row happens to be an odd little row.
Someone who was eventually affiliated with the University of Illinois because they're the
University who deposited this, wandered around Western Europe right after World War II.
That's a cute story.
I like that.
And collected newspapers.
So we have... Who's collected?
Or she?
Whoever.
French, German, Dutch, Belgium, and I think that's basically it.
You know, roughly late 45, maybe up into 1947,
all around, you know, Northwestern Europe.
And you can see they were all 40s.
Post, immediate post-war.
Post-war.
And so it gets a, uh... Elsevres, La France.
Yeah, this is a little French pile.
Uh-huh.
And, uh... And what happened is this individual probably kept them at the university until that person either died or retired.
And then nobody, and used them in their curricula or whatever.
And then that course went out where that person went.
That's right.
And we don't need these anymore.
So that's what happens, right?
Yes.
And I bet that happens a lot.
So we have Austrian, too.
I didn't quite realize we had Austrian.
So this is this person's row, you think?
Basically, yes.
Lots of little piles.
Lots of stuff.
Cute.
Do you have a name for it?
No.
Is there ever any call for it?
Not.
A lot yet.
Part of the difference with this group is that while we had it cataloged in our card catalog, this is among the last materials that we have been working on, on our effort to get all of our foreign newspapers cataloged online.
And so, largely because
While we knew we had a range of dates, we didn't know exactly what we had, and so they are... It pretty much looks like 46, 45 to 46 is what it looks like.
Right.
There's a few that go to 47, but I feel like, you know, here's a Polish newspaper that's from The Hague.
Hmm.
So you can see some of the, you know... I wonder what he was collecting.
I'm not saying he, but it's a generic.
It could be anyone, but... Yeah, yeah.
And this is just our standard microfiche storage area.
Do you take things in as collections, like as this is clearly one individual's collection, and do you keep it?
And once you do that, do you keep them as a collection?
We generally don't keep them as collections, but we have a few things that came in as collections.
Are these working artifacts, or are they... These are actually working artifacts, but not the way you think.
This is where we store our mother cards.
These are wooden.
These are the old, wonderful carwood and oak.
Card catalogs, yeah.
But they're the right size for this lovely format micro cards.
And also there's another little format called Ultra Fiche, which is a little bit smaller Fiche size.
and it just happened to sit in the card catalog.
So are these yours originally, or are they from one of your... Actually, I don't think any of these are ours originally, with a possible exception of this one.
Yeah, well, the ugly one.
They're really wonderful ones.
Yeah, yeah.
The antiques.
Don't they have to be great?
Most of these, I would guess, are either from the University of Chicago or Northwestern.
I know some of them are from Northwestern.
They're wonderful.
I'd take this one off your head for a second.
My wife would go crazy.
Oh, God, he's brought home some more junk.
But, you know, it's adaptive technology.
Adaptive technology.
Is that yours?
I just made it up.
I like it.
You mean your card catalog from something else.
Adaptive.
Nice.
I actually, someone was asking about use of old card catalog that someone put up on the web a picture.
where they had taken the case, took out all the drawers, refinished it, and made it their bar.
So this is compact shelving, which I would say is de rigueur basically through most of the facility, right?
Yes, it is now.
And it stores the bulk of our collection.
See, look at this.
This is huge.
Yes.
If you really want a mileage number, I can find one for you.
I'd like one.
Do you have any idea of how many of these units you have?
Not how many units, but overall I think we now have 50 miles of shelves.
I would have expected more.
But actually, that's a lot.
That's a lot.
If the Strand Bookstore in New York claims 10 miles of shelves and they say they've got 2 million books, 50 miles should...
And particularly when you do it in compact storage.
Now, what we're seeing right now is not really compact storage.
This collection is our U.S.
State Documents collection.
This is huge.
Which is in the process of getting readings and the accessions.
Part of our review of the collections and what are we going to do with the collection, because this collection is uncatalogued,
It involved a long process of consulting with their members, consulting with state documents librarians, and coming to the conclusion that the materials from 1951 forward are more widely held, and therefore not an appropriate use of the Center's facilities for our members.
So we are keeping the 1950 and earlier documents, with one exception, we are keeping all of our House and Senate journals
Which end in roughly 1990.
How many square feet in this building?
You must have a figure.
It's going to be on that piece of paper.
That's going to be on that piece of paper that I'm going to give you.
So this is foreign documents open.
Open meaning what?
Meaning it's open shelving.
It's not compact.
So the materials are sitting on a shelf with a little bit of a fine space for each title.
and they're not nice and neatly stacked by side onto an appropriate size row.
And you said it's not catalogued.
This particular portion is catalogued.
So how do we know what's here?
We have a locator system, which is essentially a card catalog with short entries so that for the material we're looking at, it will be under India, a particular Indian state, a keyword access to the
agency that issues the document and then title, and it will give something like, in this particular case, budget from 1974 to 1980-81 in brackets because we don't have a complete holdings list.
This area is actually being compacted and put into a compact location and in the process also being cataloged.
so that we gain the shelf space and we also take care of the cataloging problem and the knowledge of exact holdings at the same time.
I was just looking so I can go right away.
Go ahead.
Okay.
I'm going to skip one section because all this is an additional space for something that's actually more in another place.
And the other thing that we have here
is materials that we received from the Library of Congress field offices in South and Southeast Asia in terms of monographs.
We were getting materials from them from the mid-'60s to roughly 1983.
Any time you stop something, there are many stragglers that come through.
And while this is somewhat compact in the sense that the shelves are more or less
full without additional space for additional volumes to go in.
It is not compact in the sense that the height has been adjusted.
Now, whose number is this?
Is this LC's number, or is this your number?
That is the Library of Congress card number.
This material came with—oh, good, I have one, but it doesn't have— came with Library of Congress cataloging cards stapled inside.
And we just used the LC card number as a locator.
Now this particular item, which is people in institutions of India in Hindi, is something that we have put online because it has a barcode on it.
I noticed.
And what we did in terms of our econ was we sent out the materials to OCLC, the Bibliography Utility, and said,
for anything that's not in English, search it by this card number, find it, sign, add it, and if you don't, send it back.
At that time they were not, they didn't have the staff that they do now who can do many of these languages.
But that's your barcode.
That's our barcode.
But that goes to OCLC too.
Yes.
At the time, they did a fairly good job of it in the sense of how much was available for them to add or how they used to.
And we also had the experience of, because we had copied all of our cards, and we could tell when they got to a new letter in the alphabet because the South Asian material started circulating.
And how many floors in this building?
There are four, with materials actually only being shelved on the trees.
So this building is probably good, I think, for another ten years, is that right?
Approximately ten years.
It's huge.
Oh, God.
And what are you holding here, about two and a half million?
Probably closer to three and a half to four if you include microfilm equipment.
This is gasoline, I have to say.
Three and a half to four million.
if you include microfilm equipment.
Right.
And it was actually up to a little over five million, but with the deaccessioning the state dock, that's reducing the damage.
We kind of call with our ice cube trays, not only for the look, but we do keep it
So this does have elements of off-site storage facilities.
Is there a preservation element here?
Not as big as it should be.
Our main preservation activity is keeping the stacks cooler and at a steady humidity so that we don't have the fluctuations
that you'll have in a normal library.
Also, unless staff are working here and we're doing tours, most of the lights are off when the staff come up and we do our things and then we go and turn the lights off.
So we reduce a lot of the wear and tear that you'd see in a normal library.
Also, it's unlikely, particularly with the touring, that you're going to see any staff up here.
which is why we didn't go for mechanized compact storage, which is, there's not enough people to worry about somebody coming up and starting to close them, because you can always yell.
We do have kind of unique usage of our compact storage for our microfilm, and this is the legacy of our private growth building, because the shelving units that we had there
They were already boxed.
So you just pulled out the Phoenix Gazette as an example.
Right.
And the boxing allowed us to move the materials fairly easy because they could just move boxes.
Can you just see by looking at this who this came in from?
This was actually a subscription that we started.
Oh, I see.
Okay, so this was yours.
But when you look at an item, can you tell immediately where it came from, or does it all become part of this one page?
For the most part, it just becomes part of the whole thing.
This is a synergistic collection.
It's not ours.
It is yours.
You're not holding it in trust to these individuals.
You are doing it as one.
We started that way.
Initially, there were four types of deposit, which I can only remember three, which basically consisted of, well, if this doesn't work out, we want our stuff back.
If it doesn't work out, we want you to ask us if we want our stuff back.
And if it doesn't work out, we don't want our stuff back.
You don't know the fourth?
And I don't know the fourth.
I never, you know, because it's some kind of weird little combination of those three.
Well, I like those three, actually.
You know, I mean, and then, you know.
But I would have thought, I don't want the stuff back would be number one.
Well, I mean, it may have been.
And then, you know, later on as we became family.
Because let's face it, if you weren't here, a lot of this stuff wouldn't.
have gone to the landfill or whatever else.
Or they would have been building their own storage libraries a lot sooner.
Yeah.
I personally think something would have been invented.
And a lot of your members do have their own storage units.
Yes, they do.
You know, Michigan or, I mean, all these schools have lots of storage units.
Not all of them, but that's clearly there.
But anyway, you know, we had...
things in boxes, and we needed to move it quickly.
So are these microfilms, are they of some scarcity?
Do they exist?
Some are.
Even microfilm copies are scarce too, right?
It depends on what they are.
Obviously the Phoenix Gazette is not going to be one of them that's scarce.
But something like... Yes, a good example would be... the Phoenix Gazette is going to be...
Something like The Life of Reverend Joel Hawes in its second edition.
But that's not a newspaper, is it?
That's not a newspaper.
That's a monograph that's been filmed.
So these are monographs that have been filmed.
And my guess is probably that either our print copy was lost or it was in such condition that it couldn't circulate anymore.
And that is, what was it again?
Edward Lawrence?
I've heard of him.
Do you have a catalog that is accessible?
We do have an online catalog.
Not everything is in it.
If I want to get some sample, how do I do that?
Do I have to look for a subject?
You can look by subject.
Actually, I'll show you when we get back downstairs.
Okay.
Just give me a website.
I don't know what happened.
And then, like, this particular set, which is a commercially available set from South Africa, is on the Anglo-World War and also Chinese labor, again, from the same time period.
Its rarity is probably that there's one or possibly
two coffees in this country.
Even though it's microfilm.
Sorry.
It's like the fact that this stand is not done.
This is actually owned by the Crawford and I have a microfilm project.
And so we've removed from the things that are more commonly held but not easily
Loaned.
So this is becoming a rare book collection, isn't it?
Rare in the sense of... Scarce book collection.
Scarce book is a better, not rare.
Not rare.
No, that's a good line.
This is a scarce book collection.
I'll coin that.
Is that okay?
Yeah, that's okay.
I know there are many things that are more likely to help.
Yeah, but if they are, you don't really want them.
Not anymore, except in efforts...
where we can convince our members that if we have it, then they can deaccession their multiple copies.
And we do have two projects where we're trying to do that, superseded reference books, and we are starting to take in the materials held in JSTOR.
Yes.
In fact, that's how I made this with Kevin suggested.
So that's kind of going back to our original purpose.
Because I said to him, once you copy these things, are you getting rid of them?
Well, I said, we're not going to keep them, if that's the short answer.
But, you know, the amplified answer is we're going to send them to Chicago.
And they've agreed to take them.
So that's great.
And I think that's wonderful.
And then in the process, then, we're going to also try and convince our members that now that we have the print, you don't need to keep your copy.
Mm-hmm.
And I imagine there will be some members who this will be no problem and they'll be able to get rid of things.
Other members will be able to get rid of that title and they won't be able to get rid of that title, but maybe they will.
That's fine.
They are libraries after all.
This is another legacy location.
This is the fifth floor.
Legacy meaning what?
Call number based on the Cottage Group building.
So legacy, it came with you.
It was baggage.
It's baggage, yeah.
You call it legacy, I call it baggage.
It's baggage.
And it's basically just the fifth floor of the Cottage Group building was a compacted foreign document.
Grandfathered in.
That's a special question.
Foreign document.
Foreign documents.
We actually have, except on micro-format, almost no U.S.
national documents.
And you shouldn't have to.
Any number of depositories that have them.
We do actually have two real archival collections, which are the memory-graphed transcripts from the International Military Tribunals.
Ooh.
both for Nuremberg and the Far East.
This is actually from subsequent proceedings.
This is where they're deposited, the Nuremberg stuff?
This is one of the copies.
Most of this material has also been microfilmed by the National Archives.
It's called Subsequent Proceedings in Irma, called Subsequent Proceedings.
And this is all, these are... There's mimeographs, there are some photographs, and they're in the evidence areas.
Now, one of the institutions, again, had this as a... University of Chicago had it.
Chicago had it.
Someone at the law school was one of the... Members of the tribunal problem with that.
Makes sense.
And they sent it on.
Legislative state documents.
College catalog... Worcester Academy?
My two daughters went to Worcester Academy.
Oh, they're going to love this.
You're kidding.
What are you doing with Worcester Academy?
We have probably the largest collection of U.S.
college cabinets.
This is not a college.
This is a high school, a private school.
Well, and where we have places like Worcester Academy is we also included college preparatory type schools, which is what Worcester Academy is.
And you've got Worcester Polytech, which is a college.
It's not Worcester Academy.
There's a difference.
Yeah.
Now, these are what?
College catalogs.
But this is hard-bound.
Yeah, well, someone bought them.
And then they sent it into this.
Course catalogs.
This is great.
I think this is really great.
Yeah, I really do.
It also includes...
A lot of people think this is great.
I think it's great.
It's like people throw away phone books.
Phone books are fantastic resources, don't you think?
Yeah.
I'm an amateur genealogist, so I love phone books.
The emphasis is the course catalog, but we will also include in the collection the presidential
reports treasurer's reports of the institution but that's why look at this look at this that's a you know you could take that you could sell that for serious money in worcester you know i mean that's a worcester school of design 1858 academy of fine arts and pretty darn good may i that's your condition i'm good don't worry i know what i'm doing my pen is over here
Actually, the cover's probably the worst part of it.
Yeah.
That's fantastic.
July 1858.
Wow.
I probably shouldn't show you this.
This is from New York Public.
Well, so New York Public had these.
Yeah.
The whole thing?
It doesn't matter.
Yeah, yeah.
What in the world were they doing with a hardbound?
How did New York Publics get out here?
Well, New York Public is a member of the Center.
Oh.
The Research Library is a member of the Center.
Uh, they can't do it.
So then we, you know.
Worcester State?
You know Worcester here.
This is unbelievable.
Worcester State College?
This is unreal that I could, but Worcester YMCA?
So you go from Worcester Academy to Worcester Art Museum School to Worcester County Free Institute of Industrial Science.
This is fantastic.
Uh, the Domestic Science School.
I'm just cueing myself where this is, so.
So it, uh,
Carboys go local angle, isn't there?
People are not looking for it.
And we also have a foreign college catalog collection, but not nearly as complete as the U.S.
college catalogs, because we've taken in in the past, well, shortly before we moved, we took in a major deposit from the public and the University of California at Berkeley and pretty much completed
the major colleges.
I mean, come on, Phoenix Junior?
I'm not passing judgment, but I'm not being a snob, but nevertheless, that's pretty arcane, isn't it?
Yeah, and our stack maintenance management.
You must have thousands of these things.
Oh, yeah.
Most of the labs are probably in some of the women's colleges that are now defunct.
Well, Florida State College for Women.
That may still exist.
Who knows?
The Casanovia Seminary?
I don't know.
And this is all empty space here, so this room here from what catalogs?
Actually, this is from the catalog.
Is it called some of the stuff?
I bet there is.
There is.
And currently, since 1974, we've been getting it on a microfiche set, so we're no longer taking our hard copy for recent things.
But we had someone from the University of Washington in Seattle who was doing research on women professors and the increase in women in academia.
And so she came and was using college catalogs, and it's like every 10 years she was doing a check to see how the sponsorship was.
That's good.
That's good stuff.
I like that.
So she used her name, and she looked at materials.
And normally we don't allow patrons into the staff, but for things like the college catalogs and our U.S.
Inprint Texts book collection, we do make arrangements for them to come in.
to kind of look at it, pick and choose which places she wanted, looking to see if she could get the four or five decades that she wanted to cover, to see if there was coverage for each one.
Textbooks, again, not an uncataloged collection.
A lot of people who are looking into subjects have been doing research and can recognize the time period based on the bindings.
So it's much easier for them to come up and say, you know, I want to see English readers from the 1930s.
They've seen the type of findings enough that they can come up and walk to the shelf of their last probably 30s and pick and choose, whereas a staff member would have to go through individually.
And look at that.
Another collection here is Foreign Official Gazette.
Foreign Official Gazette.
I'll be able to find these categories of myself in the... Definitely this one.
The... Not necessarily, just to give me a range.
You're looking for a nice paragraph of Arcania, you know?
Okay.
You know what I'm saying?
Yes.
So I can illustrate.
Okay.
And...
I don't mean to suggest that I'm superficial, but I am sometimes.
Burundi, look at that, huh?
Cameroon's journal officiel.
Wow.
I'm not writing a book on the Center for Research Library.
You're writing a book.
Well, I'm bringing it in.
Cypress cassette.
This is our newsprint.
We also have it on Michael Hill.
We also have a microphone collection.
You do not accept music as if the microphone exists anymore.
And this is a collection of materials that we had from a variety of sources.
And then New York Public just finished a deposit of most of their foreign official gazettes that they had.
They did keep a few that they had fairly high use of.
Do you have a reading room here where people can come and use it?
Yes, we do.
Service malls and it's by appointment only.
And that's only so that we can have the materials paged and ready when they come.
And if it happens to be checked out, we don't have to check.
There's no reason to come when they don't make it check.
What's that for?
Oh, you told me that.
Foreign.
It's kind of the congressional record equivalent.
London, is that it?
So are you a librarian by training and temperament?
Yes.
I actually do collection development here at the Center.
So we have a collection development.
Yes.
Do you have a vision policy?
We have a policy.
Do you?
I'd love to see it.
Can I have it?
Sure.
The collection development here is quite a lot different than other places because I do very little actual selection.
Well, you come at it from a reverse angle.
We come at it from a reverse angle so that... I should have brought my camera, darn it.
So you've got some empty shelves here.
Yeah, this is actually our foreign doctoral dissertation expansion space.
We have currently 750,000 plus volumes of foreign doctoral dissertation.
So Virginia is not a foreign country.
You must have a lot of the ones that Chicago got in that Berliner acquisition, which was fantastic at the time, and that's 105 years or so ago, you know.
And we also got a large deposit from the Whitewood Congress in terms of... These are all dissertations.
All corn doctoral dissertations.
Which have been printed, apparently.
Printed.
It's very common to print dissertations outside of the United States.
Some of them are printed in series.
Some of them are just printed.
I believe there's some of these requirements.
I mean, look at them.
There are thousands of them.
You said 750,000?
Yeah, plus.
And they're probably all here, right?
You think?
In between three arrangements of print, which is just size segments.
So we have the shorter ones, the slightly taller ones that are roughly 8 by 11.
And then the larger size print, microfiche and microfilm.
Is this all searchable?
I mean, is all this... Totally uncatalogued.
Totally uncatalogued.
Yes.
So how do we know?
We come and...
Well, first of all, we tell our members to ask, and if we don't have it, we will attempt to obtain it.
And we have someone who comes and looks on the shelf.
We have things that we... Yeah, but they're stored by size, so where do you look?
We go through the whole sequence.
And a lot of the pages learn really quickly where things are likely to be.
Okay.
We have older German... So there is some categorization then.
Yeah.
But it's all, it's not really... It's all kind of... It's ask a librarian, basically.
Ask for help.
Most of the older German materials, say pre-World War II, are in the shorter size and are going to be in the print sequence.
The larger sizes tend to be either more modern or... I want to say they're more the French dissertations
I know that there's one Swedish university that always publishes in that size.
Well, there's some kind of classification.
It's arranged by authors.
So it is searchable.
It is searchable, yes.
I understand that you've got Walter Benjamin's thesis, which some guy offered you whatever for.
But that must be, you could go look up Benjamin, right?
Yeah, except that that one's now in our vault.
As well it should be.
That's a great story.
And then there's speech and microphone.
And, for example, the French dissertations that we get now are almost all in Fiche.
So, you know, if you have a modern French dissertation, you go and look in Fiche first.
You have a British dissertation.
which, because of the copyright law, we have to order individually as requested if we don't already own it.
Those are mostly on microfilm.
So, you know, the pages in that area quickly learn the tricks of finding things quickly and reducing research time.
Just looking at my watch.
This is our...
currently received serial selection.
Courage being a loose term because you find a certain amount of space on the shelf and material on the shelf until the shelf is full or the tile of pieces.
That means if you've got something that comes out annually, you could have 30 years of title sitting in current serial.
Also, we don't normally bind our materials, though we do have things that have been bound.
Most of these are materials that we receive from the Library of Congress in New Delhi, Islamabad.
So LC is a very grateful member then, I gather?
LC is not a member, but they have a... A special arrangement, probably.
Well, they have something that's called the Quantity of Acquisitions Program, which is an extension of what was initially...
the quote-unquote wheat funds.
This is where in India, for example, we had sold grain.
They had paid us in rupees.
And what Congress did was enact a law that said, well, we're not going to take the rupees.
We're going to buy books for the Congress Library and academic institutions in the United States instead.
Mm-hmm.
And then we were one of the early participants of that program.
Need to come around this way so I can get some light.
Where we are now is where the bulk of the print collection is stored.
This was spread over... Monographic stuff and... And cereal intermixed, arranged by size, with Michelle Phillips.
So, one thing we noticed is the changing publication pattern in the sense that monographs tend to be short, serials tend to be tall.
So we have on the 1A, serials, which include not only in regular periodical magazines, but we also include in the largest size
some of the tabloid-sized newspapers are here.
So for example, the Moscow News is shelved here and not with the rest of the print newspaper collection.
And as we move farther down and we get close, I will get into more books.
The materials here range from things that
The center subscribed to for a period things that members subscribed to and did not bind to things that they subscribed to and found and deposited with us.
There is, because this is strictly an accession number, a title may appear in a variety of different locations throughout the sequences, and if it changes size, it moves
the next things go to another location.
So it's the most efficient use of shelving space for each home one.
And so you can have all kinds of different things and different things.
You know, there's no browsing facility because shelving
I mean, we have to understand the function.
This is not a blousable facility.
This is not what you're meant to do.
The browsing has been done.
This stuff has been sent off to deep sleep, basically.
Correct.
Because I understand it's the title of the book.
No, no, it's a chapter.
The chapter is the book.
Okay.
No, no, that's just the chapter.
I'm not so sure this is in that chapter, by the way, but it may be.
I thought I'd use this in another chapter, but this is good.
So having said that there's, you know, nothing neat in terms of how things are arranged, I'm stopped being here at what the staff called Nazi Books, which is a collection of material that were, I believe, at the University of Illinois, of materials that were published in Germany and occupied Europe during World War II.
So you range from things like text by Hermann Goring to sometimes academic text.
I think fantastic.
That they allowed to be published.
If I want to check and see if you have a title, I can't give it to you right now, but it's in German.
Okay.
But it was a last copy, and nobody could find it anywhere.
It's my poster child story, and they were looking everywhere for this book.
They couldn't find it, and I'm wondering if you'd have it.
I can't give it to you off the top of my head.
Give me your email address.
I'll give you my business card and send it to me because I won't say that all of this has been completely recont.
I'm hopeful that you don't have it.
For my purposes, because the guy should have looked here.
Maybe he should have.
Actually, it'll work.
So you have Goring stuff?
Did Goebbels write anything?
I mean, this is a pretty good collection.
Look at the swastikas for crying out loud.
What's the name of this book?
So if I take this call number, will I be able to check it out?
B186?
B186 should take me to Goring.
Yeah.
So that could be a little test case for us, right?
You know, so... Look at the tape, Joe.
It's got eagles and swastikas on the spine.
And I wonder how that translates, though.
Oh, my German's not that good.
Now, look, look at what it is, see.
Category 8.
This was, when I was telling you about the Category 8 deposits, it came in under our crew's name, the Midwest River Center.
And it was Category A, and this one happened to actually have been in the University of Chicago's library rather than the University of Illinois.
Here he is, a Nazi.
And was used three times.
Well, that's pretty good.
I hope you've gotten books run the first time.
What were the dates on it?
The dates of use ranged from December 5, 1950 to March 27, 1951.
50, 51, and what was the last usage?
According to this, March 27, 1951.
So 50, 50, and 51?
Right.
50, 51, and 51.
Yeah.
My guess, given the range of dates, it was probably someone borrowed it and returned it and borrowed it again.
But there you have it.
There it is.
Wow.
This would be interesting in terms of the... Who is that?
This is the Bhagavad Gita from Bari, Italy.
During fascist years, right?
Yeah, in 1943.
So it came in during Mussolini's watch.
Yeah.
Oh, and actually it illustrates another thing, talking about condition.
This is a paper-bound book.
Fantastic.
Look at this.
Uncut.
Safe to say usage has been low on this one.
But it ranges from that type of material, from things actually published by the Nazis to things that, you know,
You got the authorization.
This is a whole thing here?
There's some other things.
Several hundred, several thousand?
Actually, it's probably around three to five thousand.
And there are a couple things in other sizes, but the B's happen to be the... Is B significant of anything, or is that just a... No, B just means, roughly speaking, it's, what, eight inches tall?
Eight to nine inches tall.
And it just so happened that this material came in at the same time, and that's why it ended up together as a collection.
You know, which makes it nice for... That's fascinating.
...shilling off.
And then the last thing I'll show you was kind of the variety of things that when they were initially depositing material,
The work of Wall Street, for instance.
Now, these aren't subjects at all.
At all.
So you can have a lot of kind of business text next to, say, industrial, technical text, next to theology, next to
And I'm assuming there's some kind of history check.
Well, as Ron Lane told me in HD, we eliminate the air.
That's what they have in common.
Yes.
Is that all the news that fits, we print.
You know, kind of like if it fits, you're eliminating as much air as you can as possible from up here.
And so, you know, it just... What happens to the chillness?
How about fiction?
Is there a fiction element here?
There are some...
books of fiction, but not a lot.
I would tend to think that you really discouraged fiction.
We do now, but when the initial storage facility aspect came in, they went ahead and they would go ahead and do this.
This is fundamentally a research decision.
So, you know, our members are not going to have had lots of fiction except in their English literature courses.
And that might go out off-site.
Yes.
Now, while we officially don't want to collect rare books, some of our members set things to us.
That's going to be old.
Is this an incunable?
I'm sitting here going with my...
This is one of those nice Latin things that's not done the common way.
L-X-X.
Yeah, but see, they have these CI funky things.
Well, it certainly is an old book.
I think this is in the 1700s.
But it's vellum binding with a ball toad.
So it's an 18th century book in vellum.
Melissa Park.
There's that one line that came from Chicago.
Yeah.
And see, this is probably part of the Berlin collection.
Well, I would think so.
That would make sense, wouldn't it?
Yeah.
Okay, great.
This is excellent.
So we'll take a quick trip downstairs and visit our
on my catalog.
We need some handouts.
Yeah, maybe we can call me a cab while we're doing that.
It's probably going to take 15 minutes or so to get one, right?
I hate to be rushing, but I'm... You're leaving.
I'm anxious about the... I'm going to go back to the hotel, check out, and get out to... Oh, here.
Thanks.
This is great.
Thank you.
And so, I meant it was kind of going, where's the copy of the B?
and how long have you been with the Center?
I started working at the Center in 1979 at the Page while going to library school.
Out here, obviously.
At Chicago.
I did graduate from one place, but I have yet to graduate from the other.
What a pity that school.
Yeah.
I'm going to shut this glass now.